>> Sean Larkin: And so
now you see this example again, right?
So, we pass the configuration to webpack,
it consumes it, and
reads the entry property.
So, we basically,
we don't know if that entry exists, so
we have to go through
the normal module factory,
which calls out to the resolver and
says, hey, I don't know if this exists.
Can we verify this, please,
and so it goes and searches.
If it finds it, it says, hey, we're good.
It's here, and it returns the full path
information, and some other context and
useful data, and passes it back
to the normal module factory.
What that does is it creates this object
now, collects the source information,
and now we have the source for the module.
Now what webpack does from here
is it has to take that source and
it's gonna parse it into an AST.
It walks through the graph looking for
dependency statements, and as it finds it,
it's going to attach one to the module.
>> Sean Larkin: Then, when you think
about it, those dependency statements,
even if you look back at the AST explorer,
you'll notice,
>> Sean Larkin: Inside the import
declaration, what's the problem here?
We couldn't just go pull
a source from here, right?
What would we have to do with that?
If you look at the value property here
it's corresponding to that little piece.
What would we have to do before
we could collect this source?
>> Speaker 2: Resolve that path.
>> Sean Larkin: We'd have to
resolve that path, absolutely.
So, we literally repeat the process for
every dependency on that module.
So it's a breadth-first
search graph traversal.
So we essentially repeat
this process until
there are no more dependencies
to be resolved, right?
Make sense?
And that is entirety of webpack,
how it creates the graph.
So, you'll also see a little corner
down there, and it says loader runner.
So, if it's not JavaScript, or
if there are conditions like the rules,
the regular expressions that match against
that result path, what happens is that
those loaders functionally transform
that file until it's JavaScript, and
then it parses, and
goes through the exact same process.
So, now we get to the rendering portion,
and so
I made this little comic,
I think it's kind of cool, maybe.
Hey, I'm a module!
I can't wait to work in the browser!
And the compilation's like whoa!
Stop!
You are not ready.
You are not ready for the big stage.
So first you need to jump in
this retainer we call a chunk,
and we're going to be throwing
a lot of plugins at you,
and topically sorting and optimizing you,
we don't want to lose you.
So we need to keep track.
Now we're almost there, but those
required import statements have to go.
They don't work in the browser, so
the parser gave me special instructions
for rendering your dependencies.
We call them dependency templates and
dependency factories.
>> Sean Larkin: And
then of course the render occurs, and
it's like, my god I'm finally rendered.
Here I come browser-land, I'm so ready.
So literally,
this is how webpack works in its entirety.
That's webpack, that is everything
on how it works under the hood.
That's all it is.
You could even break it up into three
main stages, or like three steps.
One, which is build the graph.
Two, which is optimize the graph,
and three, render it, and
we just use templates,
so it's data binding.
Does that make sense?
Do you have questions so far?
I think that this knowledge
is super-important.
Why do I teach you about
the topical instances?
Because that's the, I shouldn't say crap,
but that's the crap you plug into.
It's like, any of this behavior that you
just learned, is completely over-ridable.
Completely extensible.
Completely, you can have it
do anything you want, and
that's why plugins are so powerful.